# Graphiurus_murinus
This repository contains the annotated mitochondrial genome of _Graphiurus murinus_ SRA data (SRR7704813). 

**Mitochondrial genome of Kazakhstan endemic desert dormouse _Selevinia betpakdalaensis_ (Rodentia: Gliridae) and dormice phylogenetic reconstruction**

Tatyana V. Petrova¹*, Valentina A. Panitsina¹, Semyon Yu. Bodrov¹ & Natalia I. Abramson¹*
¹Laboratory of evolutionary genomics and paleogenomics, Zoological institute Russian Academy of Sciences, Saint-Petersburg, Russia. *email: p.tashka@inbox.ru; natalia_abr@mail.ru

**Abstract**
Dormice (family Gliridae), is an ancient group, in the Oligocene and Early Miocene it was the entirely dominant rodent family, and current diversity is represented with few extant species. The Kazakhstan endemic, desert dormouse _Selevinia betpakdalaensis_ is one of the most enigmatic dormouse species. The lack of genetic data did not allow _Selevinia_ to be included in the previous molecular phylogenetic analysis. In the current study we report the first genetic data for S. betpakdalaensis as well as mitochondrial genomes for several other species of the Gliridae family (_Myomimus roachi_ and _Glirulus japonicus_) retrieved from the museum specimens and _Graphiurus murinus_ assembled from SRA data. The assembled  mitochondrial genomes were combined with available mitochondrial data from the Genbank to reconstruct the mitochondrial phylogeny of Gliridae. Taking into account the distortion of the phylogeny as a result of the analysis of the saturated third codon position, we obtained for the first time a resolved phylogeny of the subfamily. The first split within Gliridae (separation time of the Leithiinae subfamily) is estimated as an average of 34.6 Mya, while Graphiurinae and Glirinae subfamilies divergence time is assessed about 32.67 Mya. Phylogenetic analysis confirmed the relationship between Selevinia and the mouse-tailed dormouse genus Myomimus previously shown based on cranial and mandibular morphology.
